# CS-340-8-2-Journal-
Database and Web Connection

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  To make my code maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I focus on making the code consistent (coding), naming associated (titles for variables, methods, classes, etc.), minimalistic (keep code short and simple), commented (adding comments to identify purpose), abstractive (keeping the client separate from behind the scenes), and adding README files (basic overview of the code’s intent). By breaking the code down into parts, I got to focus more on individual pieces, like developing create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) methods for the client, establishing a connection between MongoDB and Jupyter, developing a test class to ensure these work for the client, and designing a class that creates a webpage and projects various dashboards and graphs where they can change based on user input. In this way, it gave structure and organization to completing a complex task from beginning to end, similar to how a Scrum team works. I could use this model to build similar designs for other companies. Still, it could go further by creating tests and status displays that combine database and user-input functions, along with a wide range of display options and images.   

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests? 

  As a computer scientist, I would approach a problem with an open mind, not allowing setbacks to discourage me from finding the answer, and conduct research across a wide range of resources to arrive at the best possible solution. It differed from previous assignments because I had to establish a connection between two systems and define how to get them to work together. Before, I would use Excel files for the projects I create to run off of, but this focused more on MongoDB and Jupyter. I would gather as much information as possible from the client about what they want and create a running model of their expectations to show them. If they like the model, I would give it to them. However, if they have additional thoughts, ideas, and changes they would like to see, I would incorporate these. I would continue this path until I have exceeded the client’s expectations. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  Computer scientists write code for systems that enable users to interact with them in various ways, bridging the gap between hardware and software. This matters because, as other fields expand, computer scientists develop the technology that pushes them forward. Consider space travel. A human is not capable of monitoring and developing the requirements on their own. However, with the use of various systems, someone can go into space and control everything from a chair. In this project, Grazioso Salvare benefits from this system by organizing their database to single out specific breeds of dog that specialize in particular areas like water rescue, showing the percentage of breed saturation within each category, and by selecting an individual dog, users get an exact location on a map of where the dog is. This helps them narrow in on the dogs they are looking for based on what they need, rather than searching through a database that has over 18,000 animals, including other species. 
